Case Study: Viv’s Vintage Wear
Background about the Company
Viv’s Vintage Wear is a clothing company which sells a comprehensive range of second-hand, vintage,
and vintage style clothing sourced from around the world; including clothing, shoes, jewelry, bags and
other accessories.
Viv started the business back in the 1980s when he was a punk and had a passion for customising his
own clothes, which were usually second-hand and mostly bought from small vintage boutique shops
around the UK. Viv’s passion for all things vintage has certainly not waned over the years and he has
built the business up from one small back street shop in Preston, Lancashire, to currently having 20
store locations nationwide.

Mailing List
Viv’s has a mailing list which is made up of customers who opted in to ‘hearing from Viv’s about its
latest products, services, special offers and promotions’, when they purchased items in a store.
Customers can opt in to receive promotional mail via postal mail, email, or both.

Email
Email information may include new product information, products that are currently on offer (e.g.
30% off selected footwear) and promotions (e.g. Gift your Old Gear for a 15% discount).

Mail
They produce two brochures each year, Spring/Summer, and Autumn/Winter, which contain details
of some of their ‘vintage style’ products. Included with the brochure is a £10 gift card as an incentive
to draw customers into the shop.
Gift Your Old Gear Scheme

Customers can take their old clothing to a Viv’s store. They accept any brand and any clothing type, as
long as it's in good usable condition. These are donated to a charity, and as a thank you, customers
will receive 15% off their next Viv’s purchase.
Over the past few years Viv’s customers have helped contribute to over 650 beneficiaries with
over 100,000 individual items generously donated to the Gift Your Old Gear scheme.
The 15% off offer can be used against a full price purchase made the same day as a qualifying Gift
Your Old Gear donation. The discount is per transaction and is not based on number of items
donated. The discount cannot be used to buy gift cards or in conjunction with any other offer.
CO1605 Systems Analysis and Database Design

Purchasing Goods
When a customer takes the items they want to purchase to the till area the Sales Assistant asks if
they would like to join the mailing list. If the customer agrees, the Assistant takes their name and
address, email address, and preferred mailing options, and records it in the Mailing List Spreadsheet.
If they have a £10 discount card, the customer presents it, and the amount is deducted from the
total. The card is retained by the Sales Assistant and filed away in the office at the end of the day for
auditing purposes. The payment for the goods is then made with cash or card.

If the customer has a gift card, they present this at the point of purchase. The items are scanned into
the EPOS system and the card is swiped through the card reader on the till. The amount is deducted
from the total sale. The card is returned to the customer and any remaining balance is paid.
If a customer wants an item that is not in store the sales assistant can check on the EPOS system to
see if it is available in one of the other stores. If it is in stock at another store the item can be ordered
and delivered to the store for free, or to the customer’s home address for a postage fee.
If the customer brings in suitable items for the Gift Your Old Gear scheme the Sales Assistant just
‘clicks’ the Gift Your Old Gear button on the EPOS display and the 15% is automatically deducted (the
discount may not be used to buy gift cards or in conjunction with any other offer).

Returning Goods
Goods purchased can be returned to any of the shops regardless of where they were bought. Items
must have a valid receipt (less than 28 days old), be in an unused state, and still have all tags/labels
attached. During a refund the Sales Assistant inspects the goods and issues a refund via the payment
method that was used to buy the goods. If the receipt is missing but the goods still have their tags
attached the store issues a gift card to the value of the items being returned.